# Tuna-Empire
Empire of Tuna. Knowledge Economies and Ocean Regimes in the Territorial Age

# Sub-project under Professor NNadin Heé
# https://www.geschkult.fu-berlin.de/e/fmi/institut/mitglieder/Professorinnen_und_Professoren/hee.html

# Historians generally analyse the expansion of Japan’s empire in terms of the occupation of landmasses and islands and the fight for natural resources, scarcely considering the vast oceans as part of its territory. Yet in this project, I will argue that it is this maritime dimension that acted as a crucial counterbalance within the Japanese empire and allowed it to project its power on a global scale. Moreover, this empire did not vanish after 1945 as the terrestrial one did, but re-emerged and regained significant power in the Cold War years albeit primarily in the form of an informal and economic empire. Thinking extensively about the vast oceans rather than about the terrestrial parts of the Japanese Empire not only offers new perspectives within empire studies or maritime history, but is very much linked to an unconventional regional history of East Asia. I aim at writing a trans-war history, meaning a history of continuity, encompassing the period of the Age of Empire as well as the Cold War. This period has been selected with the goal of scrutinizing current ruptures in the historiography of East Asia, but also within global history or ocean studies. My aim is to use tuna as a monocle to address the impact of this maritime Empire and to offer a new narrative of what Charles Maier called the Age of Territoriality, 1860-1970. Through the lens of tuna I seek to show, that there exist continuities of Japan’s domination of global fisheries and the oceans from the inter-war period up to the Cold War period. It was a global shift to applied science and the paradigm of development aid and technical assistance that reinforced the re-emergence of Japan’s ‘maritime empire’ in early Cold War. This empire I define as the entanglement of Japan’s power position in the regional and global struggle for maritime resources going hand in hand with specific knowledge politics, knowledge economies, and knowledge dissemination.

